Let's talk about getting started with git. There's a few things you're gonna want to know upfront if you're planning on using design files. There's some clients. That work with Kit that are specialized for that. If you're gonna be using large files like Photoshop files you'll want to install the large file support.

And I'll talk about those a little bit later. For right now, let's talk about just getting into your repository. First thing you're gonna have to do is a few lines of code in their terminal. Got those cut and paste right here. So you have to get home brew. You install that, it's gonna show you a lot of lines of code.

It's gonna take care of everything. It's fine. This is standard stuff. Once you have that, you just put brew, get in there and it's gonna do the same thing. You're gonna see a bunch of lines of stuff and then it's done. These are all standard. Practices, nothing to worry about. Now, when I did [00:01:00] it, The first time, it hung up for a second in the middle.

And I thought it had choked. I thought I had, was about to lose my computer to something I put into a terminal. Don't worry about it. It'll kick back in in a little bit. And then it'll finish up. So after you have it installed, you go to GitHub. It's a free account. You sign up for that, you get your credentials and then you go and over here and you download, The GitHub desktop app.

Now, a lot of these concepts are, might be familiar from your design apps. I talked about those a little bit in the last article here.  You're gonna put in your credentials once you have it open, There is gonna be an option for a training repository. You can use that, get a little knowledge upfront, [00:02:00] but there's some of the finer grain concepts.

You're gonna want to know that it's not gonna give you. And I'll touch on those here. So once you get to the point that you're ready to create a new repository you click the button, click create a new repository on your local drive, and it's gonna do what it says. And it's important to understand that there is your local drive and there is the remote repository, and you'll want to sync these back and forth, but that's how.

All of your files are safe someplace else. So something tragic happens to your, your repository. You can go and pull a file down or several files and I'll talk about that later. So create a new repository. Put in the, the name description is optional. Local path. Pick where you want this to be because you're not gonna wanna move these around a lot.

Um, [00:03:00] you can initialize with a repos with a read me. It's recommended. And I'll talk about that a little bit later. I'll talk about get ignore a little bit later, and that's super important. But don't use the, all the ones that are in there mainly for development. So you might not want to use those licenses.

Like Creative Commons. MIT anyone can use the software. I don't think that the Creative Commons one is in there. But I'll talk about how to use whatever you want. Um. And this is assuming you want to have a public repository. If you want to have a private one, then a lot of that doesn't really matter.

Um, so once you get it set up, you're gonna have a screen that just says, published a repository. So what that's meant to do is it's to establish your remote repository and you really have two options here. You can make a new repository. Or if you look back at the beginning screen, [00:04:00] you could have pulled down an existing repository.

So if you're working with a team or another group or someone else and they already have a repository, you're gonna want to use that. And the get code, the get URL is available on the site if they don't provide it to you. Um, so here you have the first option to keep your code private or not. And this is security feature, if it's private.

Nobody can see it. Nobody can copy it. If it's public, people can come. They can make forks, they can download the files and if you put something that you need secure up there before you do privacy, it's up there and they can go and they can get to it in your commit history and pull it down from there. So make sure you think about what you want to do here.

Uh, I need to look into it, but. You might be able to do private and go public. So [00:05:00] maybe it's good to just start with private. I'll look into that and I, and I'll update, This here. So, um, once you do that publish, you have established the connection between your local drive and the remote repository. Um, so one of the things that you're gonna want to do is you're gonna wanna work with files.

So the first thing that I'm gonna do is alter the red Read Me file. And here in this screen, I'm, I'm showing that not only is the Read me and several other files ready to go up, but I've also made a change to this. And you'll see that there's the red piece and the green piece. And what that is, is the red is what's going to get removed and replaced with the green.

One thing that's worth noting is there's a little arrow with the strike mark through it. GitHub. Get GitHub. Don't really like [00:06:00] a, a end with a file unless it has a trailing line. And what that means is you hit enter, there's an extra line, nothing on it. And then you don't get Mr. Unhappy. Don't do this, mark.

Some of you might have noticed that when I was setting it up, it gave me the option to use other editors. It defaulted to vs code. But I also use Sublime, so I'm switching it to sublime. And you're going to need a. Uh, I don't wanna say code editor, but not a text editor either. It needs to be a little more sophisticated than like text edit.

Um, so I basically use Sublime. There's several others which I can include some links to. And as you can see here, going in and changing it to another application, super easy in the setting. So don't worry if you don't have your editor yet. So let's talk a little bit about get ignore as I just like, there's the keep the pro repository private as a security measure.

There's also get ignore. Now what that does is you can go in there, you can set it, To protect different things in different ways. So the first thing you're gonna wanna do is. What I have here, the DS store and Thumbs db. These are system files that are just gonna make a mess in your repository.

And once they're in there, you have to do some fancy regs and whatnot to get rid of 'em. So just knock those out before you first push. Here, you'll see that I've already got a bunch of folders that I've put in. Uh, you'll see the GI Ignore is ghosted. You'll see that the GI keep. Uh, get files are there.

Now there's a key [00:08:00] command that I'm gonna put here, That allows you to see invisible files, system files, and you can talk about it on and off. Um, so I've got the, I leave it on all the time. You might not want to do that because there's a lot of, some folders have a lot of them in there. Um, one of the things that I want to point out here is get keep, it's not an official.

Uh, get file. Not a, not a, not one that get respects, but it is treated like a file. It doesn't get in the way of other things. And what it will allow you to, to do is build out a file structure and because that thing's in it, those file, those folders will get built. An empty folder does not get constructed in the repository.

So you'll see that I have several different. Directories already, and this is just the file structure I tend to work with. You'll see how [00:09:00] they all end with get, keep ready to go up. So I'm just building out my field, my structure and there's not really anything in it except for, you know, this git, GitHub set up Fuller, which is where all my materials for this are gonna go.

Now see you can. Push all that up and now we get to I keep saying push, but I haven't actually talked about it, have I? So there's a few things you need to do, To put something in your remote re repository. You've gotta do what's called a commit. And what that is, is you type in the title. Of what you're about to send to the repo and you type in all any description or details that you want.

Um, if you're working by yourself, you might not need to be as detailed or structured as you, as some people will be. But if you're working with a team, you're probably going want to, going to want to, [00:10:00] um, establish a format. And there's gonna be things like dates, projects stakeholders all these kind of things that you would normally want to document for a project.

So you make a template, whatever and you go and you commit the file to main, or if you're working on a branch to that branch, And then it'll give you the option to push. And one of the things you'll notice is that when you put that commit in, all your files disappear, and that's okay. They're still there.

You're good. What that means is there's no more actions to be taken upon them. And so they're just ready to go. Now all you have to do is push. So you hit the push, you'll see the magic spinner, and then you'll end up with the default screen of no local changes. It has the offer to open your editor and all the other fields are blank.[00:11:00] 

So at this point, you are able to, this will tell you how to set up the entire repository. Uh, we talked about get ignore. We talked about making a private repository. So those are your security features. There's a number of different apps that you can go look at and use. And there's more to it, but, This is what you need to know to get stuff up there.

And then there's a whole other story about getting it back down, especially when you need to recover something until the next time.

